---
layout: homepage
---

## Personal Profile

My name is Wenhan Wu, I have a background in engineering, collective behavior, and biological physics. I received the Bachelor’s degree in engineering from the School of Automation, Central South University, Changsha, China, in June 2019, and the PhD degree in engineering from the Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in December 2024. From April 2023 to April 2024, I was a joint PhD student at the Institute for Theoretical Biology, Department of Biology, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany. During my PhD, I used field observations, controlled experiments, data analysis, network science, as well as modeling and simulations to study human collective behavior across scales, particularly in emergency situations. In addition, I also collaborated closely with Pawel Romanczuk’s lab and Guy Theraulaz’s lab, and gained experience in studying collective animal behaviors from the perspective of collective information processing and data-driven modeling. From March 2025, I am going to join MIT Senseable City Lab as a postdoctoral research fellow, and I will conduct independent research related to urban mobility in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.

## Research Interests
- **Reconstructing the structure of complex networks:**  Based on evolutionary game dynamics, compressive sensing technology was used to recover the network structure from a small amount of observed data through sparse search or greedy algorithms in the assumption that the unknown signal is sufficiently sparse on a specific basis.
  <br>(2018-2019, **Bachelor Thesis**, under the supervision of **<a href="https://faculty.csu.edu.cn/huangkeke/zh_CN/index.htm" target="_blank"> Prof. Keke Huang</a>**)<br>
- **Human subgroups in pedestrian and evacuation dynamics:**  Based on data collection, law exploration, modeling and simulation, and empirical analysis, a systematic study was conducted on subgroups in pedestrian and evacuation dynamics, which includes simulating the evacuation process of heterogenous individuals, developing an intelligent method to identify subgroups automatically, modeling the motion behavior of subgroups in normal and emergency situations, and exploring the decision-making and behavior of subgroups when facing a static obstacle.
  <br>(2019-2024, **Ph.D. Project**, under the supervision of **<a href="https://www.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/1110/1580.htm" target="_blank"> Prof. Xiaoping Zheng</a>**)<br>
- **Behavioral contagion of escape cascades in fish groups:**  Going beyond the assumption of time-scale separation principle, a spatially-explicit, agent-based model was proposed for the coupling between behavioral contagion and individual movement to explore the impact of movement parameters (startle speed, initial directionality, directional noise) on behavioral cascades.
  <br>(2023-2024, **Joint Ph.D. research**, under the supervision of **<a href="http://lab.romanczuk.de/people/" target="_blank"> Prof. Pawel Romanczuk</a>**)<br>
- **Random walk in human collective behavior:**  The self-organization of random walk of pedestrian groups in a circular corridor was analyzed, a simplified pedestrian model was developed to generate a series of simulation data under conditions similar to the experiment, and then statistical methods were used to analyze the distribution of data generated by numerical simulations.
  <br>(Since 2022, **Collaborative research**, under the supervision of **<a href="https://crca.cbi-toulouse.fr/en/guytheraulaz/" target="_blank"> Prof. Guy Theraulaz</a>** and **<a href="https://www.lpt.ups-tlse.fr/spip.php?article34&lang=fr" target="_blank"> Prof. Clément Sire</a>**)<br>


## Education Experience
- **[2015/09--2019/06]**  Bachelor of Engineering, School of Automation, Central South University, Changsha, China. **Supervisor: <a href="https://faculty.csu.edu.cn/huangkeke/zh_CN/index.htm" target="_blank"> Prof. Keke Huang</a>**
- **[2019/09--2024/12]**  Doctor of Philosophy in Engineering, Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. **Supervisor: <a href="https://www.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/info/1110/1580.htm" target="_blank"> Prof. Xiaoping Zheng</a>**
- **[2023/04--2024/04]**  Joint PhD Student in Collective Information Processing Lab, Department of Biology, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany. **Supervisor: <a href="http://lab.romanczuk.de/people/" target="_blank"> Prof. Pawel Romanczuk</a>**


{% include_relative _includes/publications.md %}

{% include_relative _includes/projects.md %}


## Award & Honors
- **[2016/12 & 2018/12]**  National Scholarship for Undergraduate Students, Central South University
- **[2016/10 & 2017/10 & 2018/10]**  Academic Excellence Scholarship (Grand Prize), Central South University
- **[2022/12]**  National Scholarship for Doctoral Students, Tsinghua University
- **[2021/10 & 2023/10 & 2024/11]**  Academic Excellence Scholarship (First Prize), Tsinghua University
- **[2025/01]**  Zheng Weimin Scholarship (First Prize), Tsinghua University
- **[2024/12]**  Outstanding PhD Graduates, Beijing General Colleges and Universities


## Conference & Workshop
- **[2024/02/15--2024/02/17]**  25th Seminar "Pattern formation in Biophysics and Chemistry", Berlin Center for Studies of Complex Chemical Systems, Erfurt, Germany. (Workshop)
- **[2024/05/27--2024/05/31]**  "Collective Motions of Animals and Robots", Research Institute Scientists De Cargèse, Cargèse, Corsica Island, France. (Poster Presentation)


<!-- 
## Collaborative Research

- **[Feb. 2023]** <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S089990072200346X" target="_blank">*Low muscle mass is associated with a higher risk of all–cause and cardiovascular disease–specific mortality in cancer survivors*</a> has been accepted by **Nutrition**. 
- **[Aug. 2021]** <a href="https://www.jmcp.org/doi/full/10.18553/jmcp.2021.27.10.1482" target="_blank">*Validation of EHR medication fill data obtained through electronic linkage with pharmacies*</a> has been accepted by the **Journal of Managed Care & Specialty Pharmacy**.
- **[Jan. 2021]** <a href="https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jocd.13486" target="_blank">*Quantitative evaluation of rejuvenation treatment of nasolabial fold wrinkles by regression model and 3D photography*</a> has been accepted by the **Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology**.
-->

## Journal & Conference Reviewers
- **IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering**
- **IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Vehicles**
- **International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction**
- **International Journal of Social Robotics**
- **Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications**
- **Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory**
- **Scientific Reports**
- **Collective Dynamics**
- **IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC)**


## Research Skills
- **Research Software:**  MATLAB, Eclipse, PyCharm, VS Code
- **Programming Code:**  C/C++, Python, R, MATLAB, LaTeX
- **Operating System (OS):**  Windows, Linux
- **Language Skill:**  Chinese (Native), English
